README.md, before:

# 🚧 FENCE — FENCE Ensures Nothing Crosses Edges
FENCE is a command-line tool that helps you ensure that your code changes do not exceed a specified line limit when compared to a base branch. It is particularly useful for maintaining code quality and preventing large, unwieldy pull requests.

## Index  
- [▶️ Quick Demonstration](#-quick-demonstration)  
- [📦 Installation](#-installation)  
- [🚀 Usage](#-usage)  
  - [Examples](#examples)  
  - [Customizing Messages](#customizing-messages)  
- [⚙️ Persisting Configuration](#-persisting-configuration)  
- [🧩 GitHub Action](#-github-action)  
  - [✅ Basic usage](#-basic-usage)  
  - [⚙️ Customizing the action](#-customizing-the-action)  
- [🔄 Uninstalling](#-uninstalling)  
- [📄 License](#-license)  

## ▶️ Quick Demonstration  
https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7b79aed2-1fd7-42d4-a856-d36f334afe2d  

## 📦 Installation  
> macOS and Linux  

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nascjoao/fence/main/install.sh | sh
```

## 🚀 Usage  

```bash
fence [base-branch] [-l limit] [-s successMessage] [-f failMessage] [-r]
```

### Important: Default branch  
If no base branch is specified, `fence` assumes `main` by default.

### Remote mode (`-r | --remote`)  
When `-r` is provided, `fence` compares your current local branch against its remote counterpart (e.g., `origin/main` or `origin/feature-branch`).  

- Without `-r`: compares changes against the specified or default **local** branch.  
- With `-r`: compares changes against the remote tracking branch (e.g., `origin/main`, `origin/your-branch`).  

### Examples:

```bash
fence                     # Compares with `main` branch within the default limit: 250
fence develop             # Compares with `develop` branch within the default limit: 250
fence develop -l 100      # Compares with `develop` branch with a limit of 100 lines
fence -r                  # Compares current branch against remote origin/main, limit 250
fence develop -r          # Compares current branch against remote origin/develop, limit 250
```

> FYI: FENCE ignores lock files, such as `package-lock.json`, `yarn.lock`, and `pnpm-lock.yaml`.

### Customizing Messages

```bash
fence \
  -s "✅ Alright! Just {total} lines, limit is {limit}" \
  -f "❌ Oh no! {total} lines, limit is {limit}"
```

## ⚙️ Persisting Configuration

You can set preferred settings for limit, success, and failure messages with environment variables:

```bash
export FENCE_LIMIT=300
export FENCE_SUCCESS="✅ Inside limit! {total} lines, limit is {limit}"
export FENCE_FAIL="❌ Over the limit! {total} lines, limit is {limit}"
```

To keep these settings persistent across sessions, add them to your shell configuration file (e.g., `~/.bashrc`, `~/.zshrc`):

For example, if you're using `zsh`, you can add the following lines to your `~/.zshrc`:
```bash
echo 'export FENCE_LIMIT=300' >> ~/.zshrc
echo 'export FENCE_SUCCESS="✅ Inside limit! {total} lines, limit is {limit}"' >> ~/.zshrc
echo 'export FENCE_FAIL="❌ Over the limit! {total} lines, limit is {limit}"' >> ~/.zshrc
```

> These variables will be used by default when running `fence` without command-line arguments

## 🧩 GitHub Action

You can also use FENCE with GitHub Actions to automatically check pull requests in your repository.

### ✅ Basic usage

Add the following workflow to `.github/workflows/fence.yml` in your repository:

```yaml
name: FENCE

on:
  pull_request:

jobs:
  check-size:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Run FENCE
        uses: nascjoao/fence@v0
```

### ⚙️ Customizing the action

You can customize the action by specifying the base branch, limit, and custom messages:

```yaml
      - name: Run FENCE with custom messages
        uses: nascjoao/fence@v0
        with:
          base_branch: develop
          limit: 100
          success_msg: "✅ Within limit: {total} modified lines."
          fail_msg: "❌ Too many changes! Limit is {limit}, but found {total}."
```

## 🔄 Uninstalling

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nascjoao/fence/main/uninstall.sh | sh
```

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

docs: update README to include FENCE_DEFAULT_BRANCH environment variable

README.md, after:

# 🚧 FENCE — FENCE Ensures Nothing Crosses Edges
FENCE is a command-line tool that helps you ensure that your code changes do not exceed a specified line limit when compared to a base branch. It is particularly useful for maintaining code quality and preventing large, unwieldy pull requests.

## Index  
- [▶️ Quick Demonstration](#-quick-demonstration)  
- [📦 Installation](#-installation)  
- [🚀 Usage](#-usage)  
  - [Examples](#examples)  
  - [Customizing Messages](#customizing-messages)  
- [⚙️ Persisting Configuration](#-persisting-configuration)  
- [🧩 GitHub Action](#-github-action)  
  - [✅ Basic usage](#-basic-usage)  
  - [⚙️ Customizing the action](#-customizing-the-action)  
- [🔄 Uninstalling](#-uninstalling)  
- [📄 License](#-license)  

## ▶️ Quick Demonstration  
https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7b79aed2-1fd7-42d4-a856-d36f334afe2d  

## 📦 Installation  
> macOS and Linux  

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nascjoao/fence/main/install.sh | sh
```

## 🚀 Usage  

```bash
fence [base-branch] [-l limit] [-s successMessage] [-f failMessage] [-r]
```

### Important: Default branch  
If no base branch is specified, `fence` assumes `main` by default.

### Remote mode (`-r | --remote`)  
When `-r` is provided, `fence` compares your current local branch against its remote counterpart (e.g., `origin/main` or `origin/feature-branch`).  

- Without `-r`: compares changes against the specified or default **local** branch.  
- With `-r`: compares changes against the remote tracking branch (e.g., `origin/main`, `origin/your-branch`).  

### Examples:

```bash
fence                     # Compares with `main` branch within the default limit: 250
fence develop             # Compares with `develop` branch within the default limit: 250
fence develop -l 100      # Compares with `develop` branch with a limit of 100 lines
fence -r                  # Compares current branch against remote origin/main, limit 250
fence develop -r          # Compares current branch against remote origin/develop, limit 250
```

> FYI: FENCE ignores lock files, such as `package-lock.json`, `yarn.lock`, and `pnpm-lock.yaml`.

### Customizing Messages

```bash
fence \
  -s "✅ Alright! Just {total} lines, limit is {limit}" \
  -f "❌ Oh no! {total} lines, limit is {limit}"
```

## ⚙️ Persisting Configuration

You can set preferred settings for success and failure messages, line limit, and default branch by exporting environment variables in your shell.

```bash
export FENCE_SUCCESS="✅ Inside limit! {total} lines, limit is {limit}"
export FENCE_FAIL="❌ Over the limit! {total} lines, limit is {limit}"
export FENCE_LIMIT=300
export FENCE_DEFAULT_BRANCH="develop"
```

To keep these settings persistent across sessions, add them to your shell configuration file (e.g., `~/.bashrc`, `~/.zshrc`):

For example, if you're using `zsh`, you can add the following lines to your `~/.zshrc`:
```bash
echo 'export FENCE_SUCCESS="✅ Inside limit! {total} lines, limit is {limit}"' >> ~/.zshrc
echo 'export FENCE_FAIL="❌ Over the limit! {total} lines, limit is {limit}"' >> ~/.zshrc
echo 'export FENCE_LIMIT=300' >> ~/.zshrc
echo 'export FENCE_DEFAULT_BRANCH="develop"' >> ~/.zshrc
```

> These variables will be used by default when running `fence` without command-line arguments

## 🧩 GitHub Action

You can also use FENCE with GitHub Actions to automatically check pull requests in your repository.

### ✅ Basic usage

Add the following workflow to `.github/workflows/fence.yml` in your repository:

```yaml
name: FENCE

on:
  pull_request:

jobs:
  check-size:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Run FENCE
        uses: nascjoao/fence@v0
```

### ⚙️ Customizing the action

You can customize the action by specifying the base branch, limit, and custom messages:

```yaml
      - name: Run FENCE with custom messages
        uses: nascjoao/fence@v0
        with:
          base_branch: develop
          limit: 100
          success_msg: "✅ Within limit: {total} modified lines."
          fail_msg: "❌ Too many changes! Limit is {limit}, but found {total}."
```

## 🔄 Uninstalling

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nascjoao/fence/main/uninstall.sh | sh
```

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
